## Early Epcot

Completed mostly as [[Walter Elias Disney|Walt]] intended, the idealistic community was for many years after its opening a true utopia with Walt at the helm. It wasn’t long before the city faced turbulence however. Frustrated with the city’s lack of privacy and forced ideologies, a group of youths held a protest that escalated into a large-scale riot occupying several neighborhoods within the city in an event that would come to be known as the [[Youth Rebellion riots]]. [[The Disney Company|Disney]] was forced to hire a private security agency who, with the help of Florida’s national guard, managed to quell the riots and ban most of the notable participants from the city. Following this, the Disney corporation introduced the [[Epcot Police Department]]. At the time the EPD, in line with Walt’s idealistic vision, was primarily trained in de-escalation and peaceful crowd control.

## Post Youth Rebellion Riots

The riots took a heavy toll on Walt and following them his health rapidly began declining. The Disney company began, with the aid of [monsanto](https://cyberpunk.fandom.com/wiki/Biotechnica), researching and developing technologies to extend human life or otherwise fend off death. Shortly after the quelling of the riots Walt passes. His body is secretly preserved in stasis using Disney’s new Bio Technology until future technological advancements can be made. Within Epcot, now left without a leader, tensions begin to rise. The Disney Corporation appoints Roy Disney Jr to act as the acting mayor of Epcot.

## After Walt's Death

In the decade following Walt’s Death, the Disney corporation underwent major internal power shifts. The Company created the [[EMCO |EPCOT City Management Company]], to help manage the running of the city. Former Imagineer and now [[Mayor Marvin Davis]] was named CEO of this sub corp, and took Roy Jr's place as mayor. Due to the cities employment rules, homeless populations began rising after layoffs caused by corporate shakeups following Walts deaths. The post youth riots and now militarized EPD conducted several violent raids against encampments resulting in [[The Slums|the Slums]] beginning to developing just outside the city lines. 

## Epcot's Modernization

During the 90s, the Disney company entered their [[The Disney Renaissance|renaissance]], reviving their animation department with several critical hits, while also executing a nostalgia campaign for their classics. These things combined caused interest in EPCOT to surge and lead to mass immigration to the city, especially seeing as much of the rest of America had become far more unstable compared to a decade prior.

As the cities population rose, and public opinion of the Disney company was at an all time high, the [[Disney Adults]] poser gang began operating within the city. At first a very disorganized group of fanatics for the company, it eventually rose to be the most populous gang in all of EPCOT, controlling nearly the widest amount of territory 

While at this time the Disney Adults had not yet become a criminal organization, This mass immigration did spark the interest of organized crime families who rose to power in places such as New York and California, namely [[ The Sol Family]], who saw the growing urban center as a prime location to amass power. They entered the city under the guise of a corporation named Sun Arts, and gained a prime headquarters spot just outside the city center. The Sol Family also brought with them the beginnings of EPCOT’s now extensive black market of illicit goods and activities.

 Up through the early 2000s the city was still managing to accommodate the rising populations as the outside world collapsed (the constant vacant houses as the unemployed were kicked out into the slums certainly helped.) However, by 2008 as immigration to the city continued to rise, more and more fully employed workers were unable to find housing within the city and were forced to live in the slums. In 2010, EMco began orchestrating plans to urbanize the city, a dramatic shift away from the original, suburban like design. These plans had been in the works since 1999 at the earliest, and by 2013 most of the space within the bounds of the city proper had become a dense urban jungle. 
 
 Despite the  housing issues being the public reason for this shift, much of these new developments were actually corporate buildings and office spaces. The real solution to the housing issue came in the construction of the several towering [[The Megastructures|megastructures]] around the outer bounds of the city- guaranteed housing for anyone who worked a legitimate job within the city. This "guaranteed" housing, though far from the best quality, is one of the few remains of the cities utopian beginnings, and a large reason why it remains one of the preferred places to live in the united states.

## Infrastructure Advances

As the city urbanized, the city's infrastructure underwent major changes. The most notable of these was the changes to the cities public transport. [[EPCOT transportation]] had always been state of the art, and up until this point was free to use for those who lived and worked in the city. In 2011 however, the both the monorail and people movers began charging a fare to travelers. The monorail used a subscription based card that allowed carriers to ride free with up to one guest. The people movers on the other hand charged a fare each time a commuter wished to ride. In addition to fares, both the monorail and the people movers saw major advancements in their operating software.

As the city grew upwards, A new line of people movers opened up, though this time using entirely new aerodyne technology to create a system of automated aerial transport busses for servicing the upper levels of the tallest buildings, though notably this system did not service the mega structures.

Alongside improvements to the transportation system EPCOT saw a large amount of cyberspace development pioneered by [[Disney Electronic Content]]. The most notable of these being [[Disney Infinity]], a theme park based fully in cyberspace made in collaboration with the Disney parks and experiences division. The park hosted a physical location that offered the necessary hardware for guests to enjoy the park at levels ranging from projected cyberspace goggles to full brain interface plugs. It was also possible for those who owned adequate net hardware to visit the park from the comfort of their own home should they so choose. 

## EPCOT's Criminal Underworld

Arriving alongside Sun Arts, EPCOT's [[Organized Crime|criminal underworld]] opened up a means of living for the cities growing homeless population. While there was some minor crime in the years before the Sol family arrived in EPCOT, Cyrus Sol Sr, the familial patriarch, had perfected the art of crime in New York. When he moved his family business into EPCOT, he immediately began importing vast quantities of designer drugs and selling them to poor distributors who lived in the slums and saw dealing as a way to make a quick buck. Their business eventually expanded with local production facilities in the [[Industrial Zone]], and then into other markets with illegal cyberware clinics.

The Sols developed a working relationship with [[Willow Steam]], a member of the Disney Adults groups. With their guidance, she organized the Disney adults into the criminal gang they are today. The Disney adults then served as the families main force of handling imports, exports, and distribution. In addition to ties to the Disney adults, the Sols would end up indirectly working with both Entropy, providing them with illegal cyberware and illegal installation of said cyberware, and the fielders, who got most of the substances that fueled their parties from Sol manufacturers.

## The 2020s

Throughout the 2020s EPCOT continued to urbanize, becoming denser and taller. During this time corporate power within the city began to be consolidated as the old corporate sponsors were bought by global monopolies who sought to gain a seat of power within EPCOT. At the same time, Disney also began growing in power, purchasing many large global entertainment and technology companies. The company had long since made EPCOT the headquarters of their global operations, but during the 2020s Disney fully entrenched themselves within the city turning it into a corporate fortress. 

Also during this time the Disney company revealed their new "CEO" Uncle Walt, a digital anagram of Walt implanted into his preserved body, Walt appeared to be leading the company back into its idealistic glory days, an ideal reinforced by the construction of the [[Great Dome]], A large geodesic dome of LED screens inspired by a bubble like dome that was included in some of the original city plans from the real Walt's time. This dome served as a massive tribute to the power of EPCOT and the Disney company but also inadvertently ended up capping the city's growth.  Behind the scenes the Walt clone was nothing more than a corporate figurehead and marketing mouthpiece with no real autonomy.  In reality Disney was being run fully by the companies board of directors, primarily made up by the EMco advisory council.

## Data KRASH

EPCOT had been deeply integrated into [the Net](https://cyberpunk.fandom.com/wiki/The_Net "The Net") since its inception. [[WED enterprises]] pioneered many early NET technologies for use in the city, and later the DEC created several programs and also formed a taskforce to patrol and police local net activity. The [DataKrash](https://cyberpunk.fandom.com/wiki/DataKrash "DataKrash") in 2022 did hit EPCOT hard, causing a 24 hour blackout for corporate activity, and a much longer blackout for most of EPCOT's general public, lasting anywhere from one week to well over a month. 

Following this full blackout, use of the net was still highly unstable as the RABIDS virus and rogue AI wreaked havoc. WED and the DEC taskforce rapidly worked to to stabilize the local net space, and in the process lost most of their runners. After working with the global agency [NETwatch](https://cyberpunk.fandom.com/wiki/NetWatch), Disney was able to isolate and stabilize a localized net infrastructure for internal activity in the span of a few days. This is likely because WED had been working on building and maintaining localized servers for several years, and with the help of Netwatch and the DEC taskforce isolating the local servers was not too much of a struggle.

Despite the quick recovery within corporate walls, the general populous of EPCOT were left without safe and stable net access for well over a year, during which time many died due to brain shock from the rogue ai and RABIDS viruses. Smaller businesses and Corporations were ripped apart internally and the famed EPCOT transportation system became fully corrupted, having to be shut down after an infamous [[People Killer System|incident]] in which a rogue ai took control of the people movers and cause a massive collision resulting in the deaths of 12, resulting in the term "People Killer System" to describe EPCOT public transport.

As the fallout from the data krash began to calm down and the city made plans to build a localized [[CitiNet]], discourse began to emerge over what group should be in charge of running the new net system. The public had grown distrustful of WED's abilities to effectively manage so much of EPCOT's infrastructure and many began seeking another option. This was only exacerbated by the emergence of a mysterious media agency known as [[Cryptico Network]] who published dozens of slam articles calling out WED for their alleged mishandling of the Data KRASH. Many of these articles also highlighted the influential role of the DEC taskforce in what little effective management there was, framing the story as a tale of heroic net runners who sacrificed themselves for the good of the public. How much of these stories is true is up for debate, however they were highly effective at swaying the already weak public opinion away from WED enterprises on onto the DEC as the clear choice for managing the new CitiNET.

## EPCOT in the 2030s

As the DEC CitiNet began to open, the culture of EPCOT saw a shift back to something similar to the time before the Data krash, though still irreversibly changed. A large underground party scene emerged within the edges of EPCOT, spurred on by the formation of the [[Fielders]], a wild party gang who idolize the legend of "Walt's Field Day" following the release snow white. 

The 2030s also saw the expansion of the industrial zone south of EPCOT. Once a small area scattered with a few factories and some farmland has transformed into a large settlement near the size of [[Millennium Village]] housing the workers to dozens of factories. The expansion of EPCOT's industrial production attracted the attention of nomad gangs looking to transport goods. This gave EPCOT a a massive connection to what little remained of global trade networks, especially after the data krash, which caused a massive economic boom within the City.

The End of the decade, which had become known as the [[Chrome Age]], saw an abrupt and dramatic end to most of what made it so prosperous. In 1938 a massive [[1938 Cyberpsycho Attacks|outbreak]] of cyberpsycho attacks struck the city, resulting in hundreds of death over the course of three weeks. In response to this, the EPCOT police force became even more militarized, and also introduced a specialized task force of heavily implanted soldiers to deal with the most extreme threats to the city. The outbreak was linked to a group known as [[Entropy]], a terrorist organization that had been acting out of the slums for several decades. The group had kidnapped dozens of individuals and forcibly implanted them with military grade implants before releasing them in populated areas across the city.

The attacks lead to a shift in EPCOT leadership, resulting in [[Diane Baxter]] becoming the new mayor. For her first act, cybernetic implants were either made fully illegal or heavily regulated, and anyone with implants above a certain threshold had to register with EMco or be immediately considered a deadly threat and terminated on sight. These extreme restrictions were later lifted following the death of Entropy's then leader [[Craven Ridger]], causing the group to splinter and become caught up in infighting.
## Modern EPCOT

In addition to the chaos cause by entropy, two years later a gang known as the [[Webhunters]] began operating over the CITI net, conducting raids on corporate data centers and releasing incriminating data about Disney and its various partners and subsidiaries. These attacks lead to massive public unrest with the company and at least one protest occurred though it was fairly small and uneventful. The net raids eventually slowed down, but the damage had been done and EPCOT had fallen out of its chrome age for good.

Over the past few years, EPCOT has reached a seemingly stagnant equilibrium but that's threatening to come to an end. Tensions are rising between corporate rivals and gang activity is once again on the rise. WED enterprises and the DEC are beginning to make advancements in NET technology stirring up activity within many sectors. The 2040s is a decade whose place yet to be fully defined in EPCOT's history, but it appears that will change soon.